# Beta Patch Notes - v0.107.0

## Content & Balance

### Enemies

- Buffed [gold:monster]Skulking Colony[/gold]: now gets +1 [gold:power]Strength[/gold] on its [gold:power]Strength[/gold] gain turn on high [gold]Ascension[/gold].
- Changed [gold:monster]Aeonglass[/gold]:
  - No longer applies the [gold:power]Ebb[/gold] debuff.
  - Now gains [gold]Block[/gold] on its [gold]Ebb[/gold] move (single hit) instead of its [gold]Increasing Intensity[/gold] move.

### Potions & Relics

- Buffed [gold:relic]The Boot[/gold] relic: damage increase now also applies to [gold:monster]Osty[/gold]'s attacks.

### Ironclad

- Buffed [gold:card]Juggernaut[/gold] card: damage increased from 5(7) -> 6(8).

### Regent

- Buffed [gold:card]Monarch's Gaze[/gold] card: Energy cost decreased from 3(2) -> 2(1).
- Nerfed [gold:card]Reflect[/gold] card: Block gain decreased from 16(20) -> 15(20).

### Necrobinder

- Buffed [gold:card]Sic 'Em[/gold] card: Summon increased from 2(3) -> 3(4).
- Buffed [gold:card]The Scythe[/gold] card: damage increased from 3(4) -> 4(5).

## Quality of Life

- During the [gold:monster]Gremlin Merc[/gold] fight, if [gold:monster]Gremlin Merc[/gold] didn't steal any gold but [gold:monster]Fat Gremlin[/gold] escaped, the player now receives 50% of the normal gold reward instead of 0%.

## User Interface & Experience

### General

- If errors occur on run start, a popup is now displayed instead of a black screen.
- Implemented preferred [gold]Ascension[/gold] for random character option.

### Ancients

- When [gold:event]Vakuu[/gold] tells you how many times you've visited him, the number he says is now accurate.
- [gold:relic]Pael's Flesh[/gold] relic now visually increases the maximum Energy amount shown in your Energy counter.
  - For example, if you have 3 max Energy before [gold:relic]Pael's Flesh[/gold] triggers, your Energy counter will show 4/4 instead of 4/3 after [gold:relic]Pael's Flesh[/gold] triggers.

### Enemies

- The [gold:card]Wither[/gold] status card preview upgrade level now matches the upgrade level that [gold:monster]Aeonglass[/gold] is actually on.

### Necrobinder

- [gold:card]Sacrifice[/gold] card now previews how much [gold]Block[/gold] it will gain, so that it's easier to plan with effects like [gold:power]Dexterity[/gold] and [gold:power]Frail[/gold].

## Art

- Added [gold]Epoch[/gold] art for:
  - [gold:epoch]Devastation[/gold]
  - [gold:epoch]The Twelve[/gold]
  - [gold:epoch]The Giant[/gold]
- Added [gold]Defect[/gold] power up animation.
- Added new [gold:monster]Soul Nexus[/gold] VFX.

## Writing

- Updated translations for various languages.

## Bug Fixes

### General

- If you have Steam Cloud turned off, cloud files no longer overwrite local ones.
- First floor of Act 2 can no longer be a ? room instead of a fight when carrying [gold:card]Spoils Map[/gold] quest card.
- Fixed card Energy cost sometimes showing the wrong value when its cost is randomized.
- Fixed cards returning to the wrong spot in your hand after deselecting them during a card selection.
- Card draw is now stopped after combat ends during the draw phase.
- Overgrowth act now plays both of its music tracks instead of always the same one.
- Music no longer restarts twice at the start of a run.

### Ancient

- Fixed an issue where, if the player has [gold:event]Vakuu[/gold]'s [gold:relic]Whispering Earring[/gold] relic and it auto-plays [gold:card]Void Form[/gold] card, it could sometimes continue auto-playing cards on the player's next turn.
- Fixed [gold]Nonupeipe[/gold]'s [gold:relic]Diamond Diadem[/gold] relic resetting its count after [gold:card]Hellraiser[/gold] power plays cards at the start of the turn.

### Enemies

- [gold:monster]Aeonglass[/gold]'s [gold:card]Wither[/gold] status card no longer briefly returns to your hand before you discard your hand at the end of your turn.
- Can no longer upgrade [gold:card]Wither[/gold] status card with [gold:card]Armaments[/gold] or [gold]Drain Life[/gold] cards.
- Fixed an issue where, after killing [gold:monster]Spectral Knight[/gold], cards that would normally be [gold]Ethereal[/gold] could sometimes become non-[gold]Ethereal[/gold].
- Fixed creature and boss VFX occasionally failing to appear.
- Fixed [gold:monster]Flyconid[/gold] spore effect lingering when its attack is interrupted.
- Fixed [gold:monster]Fossil Stalker[/gold] VFX continuously playing in the [gold]Bestiary[/gold].
- Fixed the [gold:encounter]Living Fog[/gold] encounter name in the death quote.
- If you kill [gold:monster]Gremlin Merc[/gold] before he steals any gold from you, the rewards screen no longer says "Mugged..." even if [gold:monster]Fat Gremlin[/gold] escapes.

### Potions & Relics

- Fixed an issue where, if the player hatched [gold:card]Byrdonis Egg[/gold] at a rest site while the rest of their deck was upgraded and they had [gold:relic]Miniature Tent[/gold] relic, they were unable to upgrade the newly-added [gold:card]Byrd Swoop[/gold] card until the next rest site.
- Fixed an issue where, if [gold:relic]Pantograph[/gold] relic healed the player above 50% health, [gold:relic]Red Skull[/gold] relic's [gold:power]Strength[/gold] increase would still apply until an attack was played.
- [gold:relic]Snecko Skull[/gold] relic now always triggers before [gold:relic]Unsettling Lamp[/gold] relic.
- Fixed visual errors with the outline of some potion assets.

### Events

- [gold:relic]Gnarled Hammer[/gold] relic can no longer be traded at the [gold:event]Relic Trader[/gold] event.
- Fixed [gold:enchantment]Perfect Fit[/gold] enchantment not working correctly if you play [gold:card]Reboot[/gold] card while the enchanted card is in your hand or draw pile.
- Fixed [gold:event]War Historian, Repy[/gold] event not removing all duplicates of [gold:card]Lantern Key[/gold] card if you have more than 2.

### Silent

- Fixed an issue where, if the player had [gold:relic]Unceasing Top[/gold] relic, played [gold:card]Hidden Daggers[/gold] card, and discarded a [gold]Sly[/gold] card, [gold:relic]Unceasing Top[/gold] could cause the player to incorrectly draw a card before the [gold]Shivs[/gold] were added to their hand.

### Necrobinder

- Fixed an issue where, if the player played [gold:card]Lethality[/gold] card and the first attack of the turn had [gold]Replay[/gold], the replayed attack would incorrectly display [gold:card]Lethality[/gold]'s buffed damage amount before correctly dealing its base damage amount.

### Multiplayer

- Fixed crash when using potions in multiplayer due to state divergence.
- Fixed rare issue which caused incorrect cards to be shown when obtaining cards at certain events.
- [gold:card]Nightmare[/gold] card VFX no longer plays for all players.

## Performance

- Reduced stuttering when combat effects appear for the first time in a run.

## Modding

- Base game no longer deletes progress from mods that are removed or errored.
