# Beta Patch Notes - v0.105.0

## Highlights

- The Bestiary is now available in the Compendium.
- **Doormaker** has been replaced with a new Act 3 boss: **Aeonglass**.

## Content & Balance

### General

- The Bestiary is now available in the Compendium.

### Silent

- **Blade of Ink** (nerf): **Inky** enchantment damage decreased from +2 -> +1.

### Regent

- **Sword Sage** (slight rework):
  - Old: "Power - Cost 2(1) - Rare | Sovereign Blade now hits an additional time."
  - New: "Power - Cost 2(1) - Rare | Sovereign Blade gains Replay 1."
  - Among other things, this means **Sword Sage** now has synergy with **Parry**.
- **Bulwark** (nerf): Block decreased from 13(16) -> 12(15).
- **Crescent Spear** (buff): base damage increased from 6 -> 8.
- **Patter** (nerf): Block gain decreased from 9(11) -> 8(10).
- **Royalties** (buff): Gold gain changed from 30(35) -> 30(40).

### Defect

- **Infused Core** relic (buff): now also gains "Lightning Orbs deal 1 additional damage."
- **Hyperbeam** (buff): damage increased from 26(34) -> 28(36).
- **Shatter** (buff): now Evokes all of your Orbs twice.
- **Tesla Coil+** (buff): damage decreased from 6 -> 4, but Lightning triggers increased from once -> twice.
- **Uproar** (buff): damage increased from 5(7) -> 6(8).

### Colorless Cards

- **Gold Axe** (buff): In multiplayer, now deals damage equal to the number of cards played by all players, not just cards played by its owner.

### Enemies

- **Doormaker** (rework): replaced with a new boss, **Aeonglass**.
- **Fossil Stalker** (change): In multiplayer, now gains a set amount of Strength if it hits any player, instead of gaining Strength for each player hit.
- **Haunted Ship** (change): now applies 3 Weak on turn 1 instead of applying Weak when it attacks.
- **Soul Fysh** (buff): Scream move damage increased from 11(12) -> 13(15).

### Ancients

- **Tezcatara's Pumpkin Candle** relic (rework):
  - Old: "Gain 1 Energy at the start of each turn. Extinguishes at the start of Act 3."
  - New: "Gain 1 Energy at the start of each turn. Extinguishes after 5 combats. Can be Kindled at rest sites."
- Added new **Neow** relics:
  - **Kaleidoscope** (temp name): "Upon pickup, gain 2 card rewards with cards from other characters."
  - **Fishing Rod**: "Every 3 normal combats, Upgrade a random card in your Deck."
  - **Silken Tress**: "Enchant all cards in the first card reward with Glam."
- Moved **Tezcatara's Seal of Gold** relic to option 3 so that it is in the same pool as **Pumpkin Candle**.

### Events

- Something special now happens if you have multiple **Lantern Key** cards (doesn't apply to multiplayer).

## Art

- Added art for [gold:epoch]Friendship[/gold] Epoch.
- Added new power art for **Smoggy**.
- Added multi-hit animation for **Corpse Slug**.
- Added unstun animation for **Rock Bowlbug**.
- Tweaked **Vantom** explosion to look right on shrunken **Vantom**.
- Added a phobia mode alternate portrait for the **Zen Weaver** event.

## User Interface & Experience

- Limited the total number of cards rendered when playing the **Clone** animation at a rest site to 15.
- Added translation issue dropdown option to the in-game feedback form.
- Outline darkness of continue button now matches the next dialogue arrow.
- Adjusted **Gremlin Mercenary** combat enemy hitboxes, speech bubble, and intent positions.
- **Skulking Colony**'s health bar now changes color to indicate that it cannot take any more damage this turn.
- When hovering over stale dialogues at Ancients, all of the dialogues will become opaque instead of just the one currently being hovered over.
- Added a more informative error popup for Steam BadCert error in multiplayer.
- If you move a `current_run.save` with a modded character in it back to unmodded, you get an error instead of a black screen.

## Writing

- Reworded **Axebot** death message to reflect that there is only 1 of them now.
- Added more translated text for various languages.
- Fixed translation errors in: German, Latin American Spanish, Castilian Spanish, French, Italian, Japanese, Polish, Brazilian Portuguese, Thai, and Turkish.

## Audio

- Added **Soul Fysh** background music.
- Added **Kaiser Crab** background music.
- Added **Kaiser Crab** SFX.
- Added **Hyperbeam** SFX.

## Bug Fixes

### General

- Fixed save files being lost or corrupted after a PC crash, blue screen, or power outage.
- Fixed black screen softlock when Steam would disconnect during room transitions.
- Fixed the **Sealed Deck** modifier not being affected by the multi-character card modifiers.
- **Night Terrors** modifier can no longer kill you.
- **The Perfect** badge is no longer awarded if you abandon run at a boss.
- Fixed being unable to navigate off of top bar in shop room.
- Fixed being unable to controller navigate through rest site options when player has 2 rows of relics.
- Fixed controller navigation in shop if you buy out all relics and colorless cards.
- The game no longer rapidly switches between "Controller Detected" and "Mouse Detected" when playing with a controller.
- Fixed being able to start a single player run via controller while the Ascension tutorial was open.
- Fixed potion hovertip not appearing if you press "b" in the potion popup screen.
- Fixed errors in input settings for new keybindings added after saving.
- Fixed rare problem where feedback screen is stuck open on game launch.
- Fixed rare softlock when playing **Compact** with status cards in hand.
- Fixed softlock after the popup about shuffling in the tutorial.
- Fixed Steam cloud sync errors when syncing many run history files.
- Fixed duplicate files appearing in run history after Steam cloud sync.
- Restored the default rendering backend to D3D12 for Intel 620 GPUs.
- Fixed audio staying muted after pressing volume keys or alt-tabbing on Linux.
- Fixed crash on Linux when ICU libraries are unavailable.

### Ironclad

- To avoid softlocking after setting up an infinite loop (i.e. **Hellraiser** + 2 **Pommel Strike** cards), **Hellraiser** will only play 9 cards per turn if all enemies have infinite HP.
- **Hellraiser** card now properly plays cards containing "Strike" against enemies with infinite HP.

### Silent

- Fixed **Fan of Knives** card VFX not playing.

### Regent

- Fixed not being able to select cards with controller when you choose all the cards in your hand via **GUARDS!!!**.

### Necrobinder

- Fixed **Fetch** card not glowing gold if it is drawn by **Gambling Chip** relic.
- Fixed **Enfeebling Touch** power causing **Ceremonial Beast** to gain Strength after you stun it.

### Colorless Cards

- Fixed VFX sometimes failing to appear during **Rolling Boulder** power effect.

### Potions & Relics

- Players are now disallowed from throwing the **Foul Potion** if the Merchant inventory is open.
- Using **Foul Potion** on the Merchant no longer freezes the game on controller.
- **Bookmark** relic is now able to properly apply its cost-reduction effect to a card that has been retained by a "Retain your Hand" effect like **Equilibrium**.
- Fixed **Beetle Juice** potion causing **Vantom**'s tail to become visibly cut off.
- If the player has **The Boot** relic and deals **Skulking Colony** 1-4 damage, they now properly take 5 damage.

### Ancients

- Fixed issue where the top of the next dialogue bubble was slightly visible before it would animate in at Ancients.
- Fixed being able to navigate back to **Neow**'s blessing options while looking at the Card Library.
- Fixed card inspection button blocking "accept" hotkey when looking at the **Pandora's Box** relic card view screen.
- Fixed issue where playing **Wish** card via controller would immediately select a card in the grid on the same button press.

### Enemies

- Fixed **Kaiser Crab** appearing if you load into an already completed boss room.
- Recentered **Axebot** in fight so it looks like there is supposed to be only one of them.
- Fixed a softlock that occurred if the player set up an infinite against **Skulking Colony**.

### Multiplayer

- Fixed player names with brackets (e.g. clan tags like `[]`) causing errors in multiplayer.
- Fixed state divergence related to **Mad Science**, **Juggling**, and mixed combat speeds.
- Fixed **Strangle** power proccing off of other player's card plays.
- Fixed occasional black screen when loading into a saved multiplayer combat.
- Fixed occasional state divergence caused by **Stampede** + **Headbutt** cards.
- Other players' HP bars no longer go offscreen when resizing the window while in settings.
- Disallow [gold:event]War Historian Repy[/gold] duplicate **Lantern Key** card bonus if you are in multiplayer.
