# May Bug Fixes

This patch brings bug fixes from the beta branch to the main branch.

## Bug Fixes

### General

- Improved the reliability of saving your settings on startup.
- Fixed a crash when applying powers to dying creatures.
- Fixed a crash when opening the card pile screen while targeting an enemy on controller.
- Fixed a crash on Linux during combat when UI elements were removed mid-frame.
- Fixed a crash on Linux when ICU libraries are unavailable.
- Fixed audio staying muted after pressing the volume keys or alt-tabbing on Linux.
- Restored the default rendering backend to D3D12 for Intel 620 GPUs.
- Fixed number keys not selecting cards when your mouse cursor was too low on the screen.
- Fixed being able to open the card inspection screen and toggle View Upgrades with the same button press.
- Fixed being unable to use the View Upgrades hotkey in the card inspection screen.
- Fixed the card inspection button blocking the "accept" hotkey on the [gold:relic]Pandora's Box[/gold] card view screen.
- Fixed playing the [gold:card]Wish[/gold] card on controller immediately selecting a card in the grid on the same button press.
- Fixed broken controller navigation from your relics to the reward screen after clearing the top reward option.
- Fixed the game rapidly switching between "Controller Detected" and "Mouse Detected" while playing on a controller.
- Fixed being able to target dead enemies on controller.
- Fixed being unable to navigate off of the top bar in the shop.
- Fixed controller navigation in the shop after buying out all relics and colorless cards.
- Fixed being unable to navigate rest site options on controller when you have two rows of relics.
- Fixed being able to start a single-player run on controller while the [gold]Ascension[/gold] tutorial was open.
- Fixed errors in the input settings for new keybindings added after your settings were saved.
- Fixed an error when unfocusing a potion slot during potion removal.
- Fixed an error caused by an offscreen epoch indicator on the [gold]Timeline[/gold] screen.
- Fixed separator lines appearing on the [gold]Daily[/gold] Leaderboard screen when no scores had been submitted, or while scores were still loading or had failed to load.
- Fixed replayed cards not displaying the correct damage when powers wore off between [gold]replays[/gold].
- Fixed the [gold]Night Terrors[/gold] modifier being able to kill you.
- Fixed loading a save file with a deprecated boss being able to roll the same boss twice in a double-boss fight.
- Fixed not removing all [gold:card]Spoils Map[/gold] cards when you complete the quest and somehow have more than one.
- Fixed a rare softlock related to writing debug files.
- Fixed an issue where your odds of receiving another potion reward could sometimes increase instead of decrease after winning an elite combat and receiving a potion.

### Ironclad

- Fixed being able to select an already-upgraded card with [gold:card]Armaments[/gold] when it was added to your hand by [gold:card]Largesse+[/gold].

### Silent

- Fixed being able to skip the [gold:card]Survivor[/gold] card's discard selection using the peek button.

### Defect

- Fixed the [gold:card]Scrape[/gold] card discarding cards that cost zero [gold]Energy[/gold] but have a [gold]Star[/gold] cost.
- Fixed a spacing issue in the [gold:power]Consuming Shadow[/gold] power's hovertip.

### Regent

- Fixed the [gold:card]Summon Forth[/gold] card so it now puts your existing [gold:card]Sovereign Blade[/gold]s into your hand before [gold]Forging[/gold] instead of after.

### Potions & Relics

- Fixed [gold:relic]The Boot[/gold] dealing 5 damage instead of 1 to you from the [gold:card]Bad Luck[/gold] curse while you have [gold:power]Intangible[/gold].
- Fixed the [gold:relic]Self-Forming Clay[/gold] relic being triggered by the [gold]Terminal[/gold] modifier's max HP loss.
- Fixed the [gold:relic]Whispering Earring[/gold] relic replaying [gold:card]Stardust[/gold] for 0 [gold]Stars[/gold] instead of the correct amount.

### Enemies

- Fixed [gold:monster]Lagavulin Matriarch[/gold]'s "zzz" sleep particles not going away in the bestiary when she is no longer sleeping.
- Fixed a VFX glitch when [gold:monster]Snapping Jaxfruit[/gold] dies to the [gold:power]Reflect[/gold] power.
- Fixed the [gold:monster]Zapbot[/gold]'s [gold:power]High Voltage[/gold] power hovertip to correctly state it gains [gold:power]Strength[/gold] at the end of its turn instead of the start.
- Fixed [gold:monster]Living Fog[/gold] missing its smoke.
- Fixed the [gold:monster]Ceremonial Beast[/gold]'s music transition not lining up with when it gets stunned.
- Fixed the [gold:card]Enfeebling Touch[/gold] power causing the [gold:monster]Ceremonial Beast[/gold] to gain [gold:power]Strength[/gold] after you stun it.
- Fixed a softlock with the [gold:monster]Thieving Hopper[/gold] when you have no cards for it to steal.
- Fixed the [gold:monster]Parafright[/gold] illusion keeping its negative [gold:power]Strength[/gold] from [gold:card]Dark Shackles[/gold] when you kill it for the turn.

### Events

- Fixed cards from other characters appearing in the [gold:event]Infested Automaton[/gold] event.
- Fixed being unable to discard potions in the [gold:event]Punch Off[/gold] event.
- Fixed being unable to give the [gold:potion]Foul Potion[/gold] to the [gold]Merchant[/gold].

### Ancients

- Fixed a crash when selecting [blue]Ancient[/blue] relic options.
- Fixed being able to navigate back to [gold:ancient]Neow[/gold]'s options while viewing the card library.
- Fixed being able to slightly see the top of the next dialogue bubble before it animates in at the [blue]Ancients[/blue].
- Fixed the [gold:relic]Leafy Poultice[/gold] relic transforming the upgraded [gold:card]Strike[/gold]s and [gold:card]Defend[/gold]s granted by [gold:relic]Neow's Talisman[/gold] when you get both from [gold:relic]Neow's Bones[/gold].
- Fixed the [gold:relic]Nutritious Soup[/gold] option appearing in the [gold:ancient]Tezcatara[/gold] screen when you have no [gold:card]Strike[/gold]s.

### Multiplayer

- Fixed the [gold:relic]Pael's Legion[/gold] and [gold:relic]Vambrace[/gold] relics not triggering when their owner applies [gold]Block[/gold] to other players.
- Fixed the [gold:event]Dense Vegetation[/gold] event being able to appear when any player has 8 HP or less.
- Fixed being able to start a loaded multiplayer game with only one player.
- Fixed other players' HP bars going offscreen when resizing the window while in settings.
- Fixed errors when players had square brackets in their name.
- Fixed the "Show Multiplayer Drawings" checkbox not using its localized text.
- Now showing the correct error message for a Steam multiplayer connection timeout (error 5008).
- Improved error reporting for a specific rare connection error.
- Fixed a softlock related to using the [gold:relic]Driftwood[/gold] relic on your first run.
